# Extended Modification

## Overview

The original game uses a runtime loaded database stored in the `includes/test.lnk` file that describes all of the graphical and behavioural properties associated with aliens, objects, collectables, weapons, bullets, etc. It also defines the global wall and floor graphics, sound effects and level music. This file is edited and exported by the `GameLinker` program and is also editable with `LevelEd3`.

Rather than change the `test.lnk` format with all the potential backwards compatibility pitfalls that come with it, current engine iterations support the optional loading of additional files that define further modifications.

## TKGD Format

In order to provide a forwards-compatible data representation, a chunk-based data format, inspired by IFF is used that allows new features to be added incrementally.

## Game

### game_mod.tkgd

When the game starts, the engine will attempt to load the `game_mod.tkgd` file from the `Includes` directory. If the file does not exist, original behaviours are left unchanged.

The `game_mod.tkgd` file contains behavioural modifications that include:

- Inventory Limits.
- Weapon Adjustments.
- Special Bonus definitons.
- Achievements.

The `game_mod.tkgd` file is a created from a human-readable text file that is described [here](./source/GameModification.md).

The binary format of the file is described [here](./binary/GameModification.md).

## Level

When a level is played, the engine will attempt to load the following additional files from the level directory:

### wall_\<N\>.256wad

If present, any files named `wall_<N>.256wad`, where N is a hexadecimal digit 0-f, in the level directory are loaded. These temporarily override the corresponding global wall texture (one of 16) defined in the original `test.lnk` file. This allows entirely custom wall textures to be used in levels, allowing for more specialised themes.

**Notes:**

- These files are exactly the same format as the original wall graphics and created using the same tooling.

### floortile

If present, a `floortile` file will be loaded. This temporarily overrides the global floortile specified in the `test.lnk` file. As with wall texture overrides, this allows for more specialised themes. Note, this is a graphical override only and does not change any of the other properties associated with floors, i.e. footstep sounds and damage.

**Notes:**

- These files are exactly the same format as the original wall graphics and created using the same tooling.

### level_mod.tkgd

If present, the `level_mod.tkgd` file will be loaded. This includes:

- Manual corrections to the PVS (Potentially Visible Set) data generated by the Level Editor.
- Specific per-Zone errata, e.g. corrections to assumed sky visibility.
- Zone messages:
    - These are emitted the first time the player enters the zone and are intended to allow the expansion of the in game narrative.
    - This will remove the need to use invisible collectable placeholder objects for the same purpose in most cases, except where the player has to stand in a specific location.

- Object messages:
    - Same basic idea as Zone messages but are emitted when the player kills, collects or interacts with a specific object.
    - This is a duplication of the original object-based messaging scheme but raises the limit.
    - Does not replace the exsiting mechanism, which is retained for backward compatibility.

The `level_mod.tkgd` file is a created from a human-readable text file that is described [here](./source/LevelModification.md).

The binary format of the file is described [here](./binary/LevelModification.md).
