[Back To Overview](../README.md)

# Level Modification File

Please read the [Source Format](./SourceFormat.md) document for further information on the syntax described here.

The level modification file lays out various level-specific modifications that apply to a specific level. As a primary asset, this must include the correct header and must import the [`LinkDefs`](./LinkDefsImport.md) node.

The resulting binary format for this asset is desribed [here](../binary/LevelModification.md).


**Example:**

```
{
    Header: {
        Type: "Level",
        Description: "New Level A",
        Version: "1.0",
        Requires: "1.13",
    },
    Import: {
        LinkDefs: "common/linkdefs.rson",
    },

    // Remaining definitions
}
```

## Common Types

## Main Node Types

The following nodes define the major modificatons. Generally, each one will be compiled into a distinct chunk within the generated asset binary for the level.

### ZoneErrata

The `ZoneErrata` node contains fixes for the level data produced by `LevelEd`. Currently, these fixes are limited to two classes:
- PVS Deletions
- Backdrop Deletions

The `PVSDeletions` subnode contains manual corrections to the per-Zone Potentially Visible Set data generated by `LevelEd`. For each Zone in a level, there is a list of all the Zones (including the Zone itself) that the editor belives is potentially visible from somewhere in the Zone. The average size of this list is much smaller than the total number of Zones in the level. This helps the engine to focus on performing geometry transform and visibility tests only on the subset of Zones rather than the full level.

Occasionally, the generated PVS data contains mistakes (or is just over cautions) that result the inclusion of a Zone in a PVS list that at runtime can be verified as not visible using the developer mode builds of the engine. These can be added to the `PVSDeletions` data which will patch-fix the PVS data in the level on loading.

A related problem exists when the editor determines that the open sky might be visible from a given Zone by virtue of having some other open-sky Zone in its PVS. This results in the backdrop image being renered first, before being completely overdrawn by walls and ceilings. Such zones can be added to the `BackdropDeletions` subnode.

**Structure:**

```
    ZoneErrata: {
        PVSDeletions: {
            // Structure is keyed by the Zone the errata list is for.
            <#zone id>: [
                // One entry for each Zone that should be removed from the PVS for the current Zone.
                <#zone id>,
            ],
        },
        BackdropDeletions: [
            // One entry for each Zone that should have the backdrop flag cleared.
            <#zone id>,
        ]
    }
```

**Notes:**

The `ZoneErrata` is best left until the design and editing of a level is completed. Preamature fixes can result in problems when the level geometry is edited slightly. Even moving a single point can result in legitimising what initially appears to be a mistake.

### ZoneMessages

The original game requires the use of an invisible collection proxy object to display one of the 10 predefined messages for a level when the designer wants the player to be given some narrative. The `ZoneMessages` node provides an alternative mechanism where a message is attached directly to a Zone and is displayed when the player first enters the Zone.

**Structure:**

```
    ZoneMessages: {
        <#zone id>: {
            Attr: "<attribute>",
            Text: "<message text>"
        },
    }
```

**Notes:**

- The maximum length for the Text field is 240 characters.
- The following string values are valid for the `Attr` field:
    - Narrative
    - Default
    - Options
    - Other

### ObjectMessages

The `ObjectMessages` node provides an alternative to the original mechanism for attaching messages to aliens objects that are displayed when they are killed, collected or interacted with. The main use case for this method is to remove the limitation of having a fixed maximum of 10 messages for such use cases.

**Structure:**

```
    ObjectMessages: {
        <#object id>: {
            Attr: "<attribute>",
            Text: "<message text>"
        },
    }
```

**Notes:**

- The maximum length for the Text field is 240 characters.
- The following string values are valid for the `Attr` field:
    - Narrative
    - Default
    - Options
    - Other
